boards/LegEncoderBoard/readme.md, before:

# Leg Encoder Board

A custom board that simplifies mounting `AS5047P` hall-effect on-axis encoder with 14-bit resolution directly on robot wheel hubs.

> Ready-made alternatives like [SideView Tech](https://www.amazon.com/AS5047P-Magnetic-Position-Breakout-Compatible/dp/B0DLJ6XDNM) and [AS5047P Adapter Board](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/ams-osram-usa-inc/as5047p-adapterboard/5452344) do exist, but have extra pins not used in this project and a board shape that makes them hard to mount.

## Signal

The [AS5047P documentation](./doc/AS5047P.pdf) specifies that `A` and `B` pins output a quadrature signal, and an additional `I` pin outputs index (one pulse per complete revolution).

## Power

For `3.3V` operation `VDD` and `VDD3V3` are bridged and decoupled to `GND` via `100nF` decoupling capacitor and `10uF` bypass capacitor.

Another `1nF` bulk capacitor is on `VDD3V3` line for additional stabilization.

## Indicators

LEDs are attached to quadrature (`A`, `B`, `I`) encoder outputs. These LEDs blink when receiving the quadrature signal.

The following components are used to enable this:

+ 1× `SN74LVC3G17DCTRE4` triple Schmitt buffer
+ 3× `BAT54WS` Schottky diodes
+ 3× `470K` resistors (transistor base bleed)
+ 3× `47K` resistors (transistor base resistor)
+ 3× `100K` resistors (envelope discharge)
+ 3× `1 µF` capacitors (envelope storage)
+ 1× `100 µF` capacitor (buffer decoupling)
+ 3× `470R` resistors (LED current limit)
+ 3× `MMBT3904` transistors (LED sink drivers)

Each signal (`A`, `B`, and `I`) is connected in the following network:

|Signal|Pin|
|-|-|
|`RAW`|AS5047 A, B, or I pins going to Schmitt buffer inputs|
|`BUF`|Schmitt buffer output pins|
|`ENV`|Envelope capacitors|
|`BASE`|Transistor base|
|`LED_CATHODE`|LED cathode|
|`LED_ANODE`|LED anode|

### Schmitt Buffer

The buffer clamps the analog input to either `HIGH` or `LOW` on the output.

+ AS5047 output (`RAW`) connects to buffer input (`1A`/`2A`/`3A`)
+ Schmitt buffer output (`1Y`/`2Y`/`3Y`) connects to buffer output (`BUF`)
+ `0.1uF` capacitor from `VCC` to `GND` next to the buffer IC

### Envelope Generator

The envelope generator modifies the transient characteristics of the incoming signal by making it rise quickly (fast attack) but decay slowly (slow release).

> Fast attack/slow release combination creates "sustain" which enables the LED indicators to stay on after being triggered from AS5047 A/B/I outputs through the Schmitt trigger.

Without adding sustain, the LEDs would blink too quickly to be noticeable, and simply end up looking "weakly on".

+ `BAT54` diode: anode connects to `BUF`, cathode to `ENV`
+ `1 uF` capacitor between `ENV` and `GND`
+ `100K` resistor between `ENV` and `GND`

### Transistor

The transistor is used to drive LEDs from the power source, using AS5047's A/B/I pins as on/off switches so they don't drive LEDs directly.

+ Emitter connects to `GND`
+ Collector connects to `LED_CATHODE`
+ Base connects to `ENV` through `47K` base resistor
+ Base connects to `GND` through `470K` pull-down resistor

### Indicator

+ LED anode (`LED_CATHODE`) connects to `3.3V` through LED resistor (depending on LED color)
+ LED cathode (`LED_ANODE`) connects to transistor collector

## Connector

The board uses an IDC connector with two rows of 4 pins. This enables twisting each of the signal wires with ground for better interference rejection.

|Column|1|2|3|4|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|Row 1|`3V3`|`GND`|`A`|`GND`|
|Row 2|`B`|`GND`|`I`|`GND`|

## Example

The following can be used to initialize the encoder on [Teensy 4.0](https://www.sparkfun.com/teensy-4-0.html) and read quadrature input:

```c++
#include <Arduino.h>
#include <Encoder.h>

#define PIN_A 2
#define PIN_B 3
#define PIN_I 4

Encoder encoder(PIN_A, PIN_B);
volatile uint32_t revolutions = 0;

void indexInterrupt()
{
  revolutions++;
}

void setup()
{
  Serial.begin(115200);
  while (!Serial && millis() < 2000);

  pinMode(PIN_A, INPUT);
  pinMode(PIN_B, INPUT);
  pinMode(PIN_I, INPUT);

  attachInterrupt(
    digitalPinToInterrupt(PIN_I),
    indexInterrupt,
    RISING
  );

  encoder.write(0);
}

void loop()
{
  int32_t counts = encoder.read();

  Serial.print("counts ");
  Serial.print(counts);
  Serial.print("revolutions ");
  Serial.println(revolutions);

  delay(10);
}
```

## Bill of Materials

|Component|Description|
|-|-|
|[AS5047P-ATST](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/ams-osram-usa-inc/as5047p-atst-tssop14-lf-t-rdp/5288535)|Encoder|
|[885342208002](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/w%C3%BCrth-elektronik/885342208002/9345893)|`100nF` Decoupling Capacitor|
|[GRM1885C1H103JA01D](https://www.digikey.com/en/models/4421555)|`10nF` Bypass Capacitor|
|[CC0603JRX7R7BB105](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/CC0603JRX7R7BB105/7164369)|`1uF` Bulk Capacitor|
|[GRM188R71H104KA93J](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/murata-electronics/GRM188R71H104KA93J/2345327)|`0.1uF` Schmitt Buffer Decoupling Capacitor|
|[150080BS75000](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/w%C3%BCrth-elektronik/)|Blue LED for A and B channels|
|[150080RS75000](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/w%C3%BCrth-elektronik/150080RS75000/4489918)|Red LED for I channel|
|[RC0603FR-07470KL](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/rc0603fr-07470kl/727257)|`470K` Bleed Resistor|
|[RCG06031K00FKEA](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/vishay-dale/rcg06031k00fkea/4172389)|`1K` Resistor (Red LED)|
|[RC0603FR-0747KL](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/RC0603FR-0747KL/730200)|`47K` Transistor Base Resistor|
|[CRCW0603100KFKEA](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/vishay-dale/crcw0603100kfkea/1174896)|`100K` Discharge Resistor|
|[RC0603FR-07150RL](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/RC0603FR-07150RL/726958)|`150 Ohm` Resistor (Blue LED)|
|[RC0603FR-0722RL](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/rc0603fr-0722rl/727055)|`22 Ohm` Series Resistor (A/B/I channels)|
|[SN74LVC3G17DCTRE4](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/texas-instruments/sn74lvc3g17dctre4/1592395)|Schmitt-trigger buffer|
|[BAT54WS-7-F](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/diodes-incorporated/BAT54WS-7-F/804865)|Envelope Diode|
|[MMBT3904LT1G](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/onsemi/MMBT3904LT1G/919601)|LED Transistor|
|[B5B-XH-A](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/jst-sales-america-inc/b5b-xh-a/1530483)|5-pin `JST-XH` connector (2.5mm pitch)|

Commit message:

Update documentation for two completed encoder boards

boards/LegEncoderBoard/readme.md, after:

# Leg Encoder Board

A custom board that simplifies mounting `AS5047P` hall-effect on-axis encoder with 14-bit resolution directly on robot wheel hubs.

> Ready-made alternatives like [SideView Tech](https://www.amazon.com/AS5047P-Magnetic-Position-Breakout-Compatible/dp/B0DLJ6XDNM) and [AS5047P Adapter Board](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/ams-osram-usa-inc/as5047p-adapterboard/5452344) do exist, but have extra pins not used in this project and a board shape that makes them hard to mount.

The board also includes educational indicators:
+ An LED that blinks on one full 350 degree rotation, fed by the index pulse from the encoder
+ Two LEDs that blink when the encoder detects motion, fed by A/B quadrature pulses from the encoder

## Signal

The [AS5047P documentation](./doc/AS5047P.pdf) specifies that `A` and `B` pins output a quadrature signal, and an additional `I` pin outputs index (one pulse per complete revolution).

## Power

For `3.3V` operation `VDD` and `VDD3V3` are bridged and decoupled to `GND` via `100nF` decoupling capacitor and `10uF` bypass capacitor.

Another `1nF` bulk capacitor is on `VDD3V3` line for additional stabilization.

## Indicators

LEDs are attached to quadrature (`A`, `B`, `I`) encoder outputs. These LEDs blink when receiving the quadrature signal.

The following components are used to enable this:

+ 1× `SN74LVC3G17DCTRE4` triple Schmitt buffer
+ 3× `BAT54WS` Schottky diodes
+ 3× `470K` resistors (transistor base bleed)
+ 3× `47K` resistors (transistor base resistor)
+ 3× `100K` resistors (envelope discharge)
+ 3× `1 µF` capacitors (envelope storage)
+ 1× `100 nF` capacitor (buffer decoupling)
+ 3× `MMBT3904` transistors (LED sink drivers)

Each signal (`A`, `B`, and `I`) is connected in the following network:

|Signal|Pin|
|-|-|
|`A`, `B`, `I`|AS5047 A, B, or I pins going to Schmitt buffer inputs|
|`A_BUF`, `B_BUF`, `I_BUF`|Schmitt buffer output pins|
|`A_ENV`, `B_ENV`, `I_ENV`|Envelope capacitors|
|`A_BASE`, `B_BASE`, `I_BASE`|Transistor base|
|`A_LED_CATHODE`, `B_LED_CATHODE`, `I_LED_CATHODE`|LED cathode|
|`A_LED_ANODE`, `B_LED_ANODE`, `I_LED_ANODE`|LED anode|

### Schmitt Buffer

The buffer clamps the analog input to either `HIGH` or `LOW` on the output.

+ AS5047 output (`RAW`) connects to buffer input (`1A`/`2A`/`3A`)
+ Schmitt buffer output (`1Y`/`2Y`/`3Y`) connects to buffer output (`BUF`)
+ `0.1uF` capacitor from `VCC` to `GND` next to the buffer IC

### Envelope Generator

The envelope generator modifies the transient characteristics of the incoming signal by making it rise quickly (fast attack) but decay slowly (slow release).

> Fast attack/slow release combination creates "sustain" which enables the LED indicators to stay on after being triggered from AS5047 A/B/I outputs through the Schmitt trigger.

Without adding sustain, the LEDs would blink too quickly to be noticeable, and simply end up looking "weakly on".

+ `BAT54` diode: anode connects to `BUF`, cathode to `ENV`
+ `1 uF` capacitor between `ENV` and `GND`
+ `100K` resistor between `ENV` and `GND`

### Transistor

The transistor is used to drive LEDs from the power source, using AS5047's A/B/I pins as on/off switches so they don't drive LEDs directly.

+ Emitter connects to `GND`
+ Collector connects to `LED_CATHODE`
+ Base connects to `ENV` through `47K` base resistor
+ Base connects to `GND` through `470K` pull-down resistor

### Indicator

+ LED anode (`LED_CATHODE`) connects to `3.3V` through LED resistor (depending on LED color)
+ LED cathode (`LED_ANODE`) connects to transistor collector

## Connector

The board uses an IDC connector with two rows of 4 pins. This enables twisting each of the signal wires with ground for better interference rejection.

|Column|1|2|3|4|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|Row 1|`3V3`|`GND`|`A`|`GND`|
|Row 2|`B`|`GND`|`I`|`GND`|

## Example

The following can be used to initialize the encoder on [Teensy 4.0](https://www.sparkfun.com/teensy-4-0.html) and read quadrature input:

```c++
#include <Arduino.h>
#include <Encoder.h>

#define PIN_A 2
#define PIN_B 3
#define PIN_I 4

Encoder encoder(PIN_A, PIN_B);
volatile uint32_t revolutions = 0;

void indexInterrupt()
{
  revolutions++;
}

void setup()
{
  Serial.begin(115200);
  while (!Serial && millis() < 2000);

  pinMode(PIN_A, INPUT);
  pinMode(PIN_B, INPUT);
  pinMode(PIN_I, INPUT);

  attachInterrupt(
    digitalPinToInterrupt(PIN_I),
    indexInterrupt,
    RISING
  );

  encoder.write(0);
}

void loop()
{
  int32_t counts = encoder.read();

  Serial.print("counts ");
  Serial.print(counts);
  Serial.print("revolutions ");
  Serial.println(revolutions);

  delay(10);
}
```

## Bill of Materials

|Component|Description|
|-|-|
|[AS5047P-ATST](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/ams-osram-usa-inc/as5047p-atst-tssop14-lf-t-rdp/5288535)|Encoder|
|[CC0603KRX7R9BB104](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/cc0603krx7r9bb104/2103082)|`100nF` Decoupling Capacitor|
|[GRM1885C1H103JA01D](https://www.digikey.com/en/models/4421555)|`10nF` Bypass Capacitor|
|[CC0603JRX7R7BB105](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/CC0603JRX7R7BB105/7164369)|`1uF` Bulk Capacitor|
|[150080BS75000](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/w%C3%BCrth-elektronik/)|Blue LED for A and B channels|
|[NCD0603R1](https://www.lcsc.com/product-detail/C84263.html?s_z=s_C84263)|Red LED for I channel|
|[RC0603FR-07470KL](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/rc0603fr-07470kl/727257)|`470K` Bleed Resistor|
|[RCG06031K00FKEA](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/vishay-dale/rcg06031k00fkea/4172389)|`1K` Resistor (Red LED)|
|[RC0603FR-0747KL](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/RC0603FR-0747KL/730200)|`47K` Transistor Base Resistor|
|[CRCW0603100KFKEA](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/vishay-dale/crcw0603100kfkea/1174896)|`100K` Discharge Resistor|
|[RC0603FR-07150RL](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/rc0603fr-07150rl/726958)|`150 Ohm` Resistor (Blue LED)|
|[RC0603FR-0722RL](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/yageo/rc0603fr-0722rl/727055)|`22 Ohm` Series Resistor (A/B/I channels)|
|[SN74LVC3G17DCTRE4](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/texas-instruments/sn74lvc3g17dctre4/1592395)|Schmitt-trigger buffer|
|[BAT54WS-7-F](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/diodes-incorporated/BAT54WS-7-F/804865)|Envelope Diode|
|[MMBT3904LT1G](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/onsemi/MMBT3904LT1G/919601)|LED Transistor|
